Provide  "Give KEDA 2.0 (Beta) a test drive" blog post (#226)
kedacore/keda-docs: content/blog/keda-2.0-alpha.md

+++
title = "Give KEDA 2.0 (Alpha) a test drive"

> date = 2020-08-19 # TODO: Update with actual date

Author: This should be changed with our release date

Author: Moved to 2021 and draft file

# Highlights

With this release, we are shipping majority of our planned features.

Here are some highlights:

- **Making scaling more powerful**
    - Introduction of `ScaledJob` ([docs](https://keda.sh/docs/2.0/concepts/scaling-jobs/))
    - Support for scaling Deployments, Stateful Sets and/or any Custom Resources ([docs](https://keda.sh/docs/2.0/concepts/scaling-deployments/))
    - Support for scaling on standard resource metrics (CPU/Memory)
    - Support for multiple triggers in a single `ScaledObject` ([docs](https://keda.sh/docs/2.0/concepts/scaling-deployments/))
    - Support for scaling to original replica count after deleting `ScaledObject` ([docs](https://keda.sh/docs/2.0/concepts/scaling-deployments/))
    - Support for controling scaling behavior of underlying HPA
- **Easier to operate KEDA**
    - Introduction of readiness and liveness probes
    - Introduction of Prometheus metrics for Metrics Server ([docs](https://keda.sh/docs/2.0/operate/))
    - Provide more information when quering KEDA resources with `kubectl`
- **Extensibility**
    - Introduction of External Push scaler ([docs](https://keda.sh/docs/2.0/scalers/external-push/))

>     - Provide Go client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Provide KEDA client-go library
```

> For a full list of changes, we highly recommend going through [our changelog](https://github.com/kedacore/keda/blob/v2/CHANGELOG.md#v200)!

Reviewer: I'd add a short note here or somewhere else in the doc, that we will publish a blog with a description of the new features, when 2.0.0 is out.

# Getting started

> TODO but need input, just list Helm? This legit?

Author: Happy to have input here on what's expected, just added Helm (but didn't test it as it's not shipped yet)

Reviewer: Something like this could work: `kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kedacore/keda/releases/download/v2.0.0/keda-2.0.0.yaml`

The version should be changed to what we are going to ship eg. something like `2.0.0.alpha` or `2.0.0.beta` ..

Author: Used `https://github.com/kedacore/keda/releases/download/v2.0.0-beta/keda-2.0.0-beta.yaml` for now but can change if you want.

I presume this will work because https://github.com/kedacore/keda/releases/download/v1.5.0/keda-1.5.0.yaml doesn't as we only ship a ZIP.

https://github.com/kedacore/keda/blob/v1.5.0/Makefile#L79

- API namespace for KEDA Custom Resources Definitions (CRD) has changed from `keda.k8s.io` to `keda.sh`
- Scaling jobs is now done throught `ScaledJob` CRD, instead of `ScaledObject` CRD
- `ScaledObject` is now using `spec.scaleTargetRef.name`, instead of `spec.scaleTargetRef.deploymentName`
- `ScaledObject` no longer requires `deploymentName` label _(last couple of v1 releases were already ignoring it)_

Learn more on how to migrate by using our [migration guide](https://keda.sh/docs/2.0/migration/)!

With our official release we will provide [migration scripts](https://github.com/kedacore/keda/issues/946) allowing you to migrate your KEDA resources automatically.

> **⚠ Running KEDA 1.x & 2.0 Alpha side-by-side is not supported.**
> 
> KEDA is comes with a metrics server and Kubernetes only allows you to run one of them in a cluster.
> 
>_Learn more about how KEDA is architected in [our docs](http://keda.sh/docs/latest/concepts/#architecture)._

# Conclusion

We are looking forward to hearing your feedback:

- What do you like and/or what could be improved?
- What issues did you find?
- How can the migration be smoother?

> While we are eagerly waiting for feedback, we plan to release KEDA 2.0 by the end of August, 2020.

Reviewer: Given the current date I'd chage the estimate release to 
```suggestion
While we are eagerly waiting for feedback, we plan to release KEDA 2.0 around the end of August/early September, 2020.
```
